# gul-zoe

An assistant bot for the gul.es non-profit organization. 

Zoe performs repetitive, boring and time-consuming tasks that no one want to do.



# How it works

Zoe is basically a bunch of agents interchanging messages asynchronously. 
Each agent performs a few, small and well defined tasks like capturing 
statistics from the organization systems, sending emails, generating reports 
and controlling alarms. 

Zoe can also receive commands from the system administrators to execute tasks
on demand.


# Directory structure

    agents/                        The current Zoe agents
    cmdproc/                       Defines the administrator commands in natural language
    doc/                           General documentation
    lib/                           Libraries
        bash/                      Zoe BASH bindings
        java/
            third_party/           Third party libraries 
            third_party_test/      Third party libraries for testing
            zoe/                   Zoe Java library
        python/                    Zoe Python library
    logs/                          Guess what
    mailproc/                      Defines the actions to execute when receiving mails
    server/                        The Zoe server binaries. Sources are in https://github.com/voiser/gul-zoe-server
    src/                           Some more python sources, tests and abandoned agents
    tareas/                        Scripts to interact with the Zoe agents
    var/                           Databases and stuff generated by agents
    zoe.sh                         An example script to set up environment variables


# Where Do I start

In the doc/ directory you will find documentation of 

1- the Zoe protocol, which is really simple
2- the messages the agents accept
3- the process of executing administrator commands in natural language

You should start reading the first section and having a look at the message
definitions. It will take less than 5 minutes. There are some well documented 
example agents in:

    lib/python/zoe/agents/example.py     (in Python)
    agents/echo                          (in java)

Most of the agents are written in Python so you can take a look at their 
source code in the agents directory. The log and user agents are a good 
starting point because of their simplicity.

If you prefer Java, take a look at the twitter and echo agents. Probably the most
interesting example is AnnotatedEchoAgent.java 

